.. developer_guide abi

=============
ABI messaging
=============

Paparazzi use a custom publish/subscribe middleware to exchange data between software components named ``ABI``.

.. note:: This middleware was named *ABI* for *AirBorne Ivy*

General Idea
------------

* Give an easy way to allow software components to exchange data with minimum delay nor execution overhead.
* The components don't need to know each other, they only need the message format.
* Each subscriber set a callback function that will be called when new data are sent.

.. warning:: This middleware is **NOT** thread safe. Threads are not widely used in Paparazzi but remember this if you use them.


Message definition
------------------

The messages are described in ``conf/abi.xml`` analoguous to other messages in paparazzi. Name are unique, IDs starts from 0. "type" field should be a valid C type or pointer.

.. code-block:: xml

    <class name="airborne">
     <message name="DATA" id="0">
      <field name="a" type="float"/>
      <field name="b" type="struct bla"/>
      <field name="c" type="struct foo *"/>
     </message>
     ...
    </class>

Airborne code for subscriber
----------------------------

Include header and declare an ``abi_event`` as a global ``static`` variable (but **not** ``const``). Write the callback function with the proper prototype, matching the message.

.. code-block:: C

    #include "modules/core/abi.h"

    static abi_event ev;

    void data_cb(uint8_t sender_id, float a, struct bla b, struct foo * c) {
     // do something here
    }

In the initialization function (or later) call the binding function for the message you want to receive.

.. code-block:: C

    AbiBindMsgDATA(ABI_BROADCAST, &ev, data_cb);


The first parameter is the sender ID you want to receive the message from.

* ``ABI_BROADCAST`` is used to receive messages from all senders.
* ``ABI_DISABLE`` disable the callback (it will never be called).
* Senders IDs can be found in the file ``sw/airborne/modules/core/abi_sender_ids.h``

The second parameter is a pointer to the global ``abi_event`` you declared. This variable **can't** be reused for another bind. You must declare one abi_event per bind.

The last parameter is your callback.

.. note:: When creating your module with the Module Creator (in the Paparazzi Center : Tools -> Module Creator), you can add subcriptions to ABI messages.

Airborne code for publisher
---------------------------

Include header, then call the send function with the appropriate parameters

.. code-block:: C

    float var = 2.;
    struct bla s;
    struct foo f;
    AbiSendMsgDATA(SENDER_ID, var, s, &f);

Replace ``SENDER_ID`` by your sender ID defined in ``sw/airborne/modules/core/abi_sender_ids.h``.

Your sender ID identifier should be constructed as the concatenation of the name of the message and the name of your module, suffixed with ``_ID``.

.. admonition:: example

    A good sender ID for a module ``toto`` sending the message ``DATA`` may be ``DATA_TOTO_ID``

.. warning::

    The values 0 and 255 are reserved for ``ABI_DISABLE`` and ``ABI_BROADCAST`` and thus shall not be used.
    
    You must also avoid using an ID already used to send the same message type.


Code generation
---------------

The generated code will be in ``var/include/abi_messages.h`` and include some structure definition from ``sw/airborne/modules/core/abi_common.h`` (``sw/airborne/modules/core/abi.h`` is a convenience header that only includes ``var/include/abi_messages.h``).

Bind and Send functions are generated, as well as callback type definition. A linked list is used to store the binded callbacks for each message. The head of the list is in an array to allow a fast access. 

The code is generated by ``/sw/tools/generators/gen_abi.xml``.

In depth
--------

Generated code
______________

Here is the code of ``sw/airborne/modules/core/abi_common.h``:

.. code-block:: C

    /* Include here headers with structure definition you may want to use with ABI
     * Ex: '#include "modules/gps/gps.h"' in order to use the GpsState structure
     */
    #include "modules/gps/gps.h"

    #include "modules/core/abi_sender_ids.h"

    #ifdef ABI_C
    #define ABI_EXTERN
    #else
    #define ABI_EXTERN extern
    #endif

    /** Generic callback definition */
    typedef void (*abi_callback)(void);

    // ABI Broadcast address.
    #define ABI_BROADCAST 255

    // ABI disable address
    #define ABI_DISABLE 0

    /** Event structure to store callbacks in a linked list */
    struct abi_struct {
      uint8_t id;
      abi_callback cb;
      struct abi_struct *next;
    };
    typedef struct abi_struct abi_event;

    /** Macros for linked list */
    #define ABI_FOREACH(head,el) for(el=head; el; el=el->next)
    #define ABI_PREPEND(head,add) { (add)->next = head; head = add; }




The generated code in ``var/include/abi_messages.h`` for the message defined above will look like this:

.. code-block:: C

    // Code generated in var/include/abi_messages.h
    #include "modules/core/abi_common.h
    // Message IDs
    #define ABI_DATA_ID 0
    
    // Array and linked list
    #define ABI_MESSAGE_NB <highest id of the messages in airborne class + 1>
    ABI_EXTERN abi_event* abi_queues[ABI_MESSAGE_NB]; // Magic trick to avoid generating .c file

    // Callbacks
    typedef void (*abi_callbackDATA)(uint8_t sender_id, float a, struct bla b, struct foo * c); // Specific callback for DATA message (arguments are const to prevent modifying them)

    // Bind and Send for each messages
    static inline void AbiBindMsgDATA(uint8_t sender_id, abi_event * ev, abi_callbackDATA cb) {
      if (abi_queues[ABI_BARO_ABS_ID] == ev) return;
      ev->id = sender_id;
      ev->cb = (abi_callback)cb;
      ABI_PREPEND(abi_queues[ABI_BARO_ABS_ID],ev);
    }

    static inline void AbiSendMsgDATA(uint8_t sender_id, float a, struct bla b, struct foo * c) {
     // Call all callback functions
     abi_event* e;
     ABI_FOREACH(abi_queues[ABI_DATA_ID],e) {
      if (e->id == ABI_BROADCAST || e->id == sender_id) { // call function only if selected source or broadcast address
       abi_callbackDATA cb = (abi_callbackDATA)(e->cb); // C black magic
       cb(sender_id, a, b, c);
      }
     }
    }

Using ABI in custom code
________________________


If you want to use ABI outside of one of the Paparazzi firmwares (``rotorcraft``, ``rover`` or ``fixedwing``), this code snippet should be written and called only once in a .c file (most probably your ``main.c``) to enable ABI:

.. code-block:: C

    #define ABI_C 1
    #include "modules/core/abi.h"

