doc/sphinx/source/user_guide/simulation_main.rst, before:

.. user_guide simulation_main

===========================
Simulation
===========================

Paparazzi currently has two different simulator targets with different degrees of realism and intended purpose:

- **sim**: The basic fixedwing simulator written in OCaml without IMU simulation or any sensor models (noise, bias, etc) and mainly intended to validate your :ref:`flightplans` logic.
- **nps**: NPS is a more advanced rotorcraft and fixedwing simulator with sensor models and commonly uses JSBSim as FDM (Flight Dynamic Model). 
  Other FDM's can be integrated easily. At the moment CRRCSIM, YASIM and JSBSIM are tried as FDM backend.
- **gazebo**: There is someting brand new developed going, using laters Master you can start using the Gazebo engine in Paparazzi. 
  Take a look on that page to see if it offers what you are looking for.

A FDM is a set of mathematical equations used to calculate the physical forces acting on a simulated aircraft, such as thrust, lift, and drag.

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    simulation/sim
    simulation/nps
    simulation/gazebo
    simulation/hitl

Commit message:

[hitl] rewrite support for hardware in the loop simulation (#3146)
- old way (based on ins_vectornav) is not supported anymore
- directly send sensor data and receive commands with a dedicated link
- examples with USB link for better results
- update sphinx documentation
- compilation in a single build

doc/sphinx/source/user_guide/simulation_main.rst, after:

.. user_guide simulation_main

===========================
Simulation
===========================

.. figure:: PPRZ_Simulation.png

  Architecture for software or hardware in the loop simulation

A FDM is a set of mathematical equations used to calculate the physical forces acting on a simulated aircraft, such as thrust, lift, and drag.
Paparazzi currently has two different simulator targets with different degrees of realism and intended purpose:

* **sim**: The basic fixedwing simulator written in OCaml without IMU simulation or any sensor models (noise, bias, etc) and mainly intended to validate your :ref:`flightplans` logic.
* **nps**: NPS is a more advanced rotorcraft and fixedwing simulator with sensor models and commonly uses JSBSim as FDM (Flight Dynamic Model). Other FDM's can be integrated easily. At the moment JSBSIM, CRRCSIM, GAZEBO and PyBullet are supported as FDM backend. It is also possible to implement ad-hoc simulation code, based on Matlab/Simulink generated code for instance.
    * **JSBSim**: a flight dynamic library used by default by various simulation sofware including Flight Gear.
    * **gazebo**: Gazebo can be used as flight dynamic engine, but its main interest is to generate virtual sensor readings (cameras, lidars, ...) from a 3D realistic environment.
      Take a look on that page to see if it offers what you are looking for.
    * **PyBullet**: Bullet is a physics simulation engine (simular to gazebo) that allows to easily express the different forces applied to the drones in a high level language thanks to the bindings with Python.
* **hitl**: Hardware in the Loop simulation can be used to run the autopilot on a real flight controller while the flight dynamic model is runing on the host computer.

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    simulation/sim
    simulation/nps
    simulation/gazebo
    simulation/hitl
